Orlando Bloom and Miranda Kerr still love each other
Actors Orlando Bloom and Model Miranda Kerr want to go their separate ways .
However , in an interview , Bloom has said that he and Kerr still love each other .
Miranda Kerr and Orlando Bloom are parents to two-year-old Flynn .
Actor Orlando Bloom announced his separation from his wife , supermodel Miranda Kerr .
In an interview with US journalist Katie Couric , which is to be broadcast on Friday (local time), Bloom said , &quot; sometimes life doesn &apos;t go exactly as we plan or hope for &quot; .
He and Kerr still love each other , emphasised the 36-year-old .
&quot; We &apos;re going to support one another and love each other as parents to Flynn &quot; .
Kerr and Bloom have been married since 2010 . Their son Flynn was born in 2011 .
Jet makers feud over seat width with big orders at stake
A row has flared up between leading plane makers over the width of tourist-class seats on long-distance flights , setting the tone for a bitter confrontation at this month &apos;s Dubai Airshow .
The dispute focuses on the width of seats provided on long-haul flights for economy passengers - not always the ones most courted by airlines , but whose allocated space holds the key to efficiency claims for the latest jets offered by Airbus SAS and Boeing Co .
Airbus this week called for an industry standard that would provide for a seat at least 18 inches (46 cm) wide in economy cabins , but its U.S. arch-rival Boeing says it should be for airlines to decide .
The dispute comes as plane makers vie to sell ever-larger versions of their twin-engined long-distance aircraft , with potentially record orders expected at the November 17-21 event .
How the back of the plane is laid out - particularly whether seating is 9 or 10 abreast - is central to the economic performance claims being made for new &quot; mini-jumbo &quot; jet designs .
Boeing says its revamped &quot; 777X &quot; will hold 406 people based on economy seats more than 17 inches wide and set out 10 in each row .
Airbus says the competing version of its A350 will carry 350 people in 18-inch-wide economy seat laid out 9 abreast .
Plane giants often trade blows on technical matters through advertising in the trade press .
Now , Airbus is appealing directly to the public ahead of the Dubai Airshow , where the 777X is expected to dominate with more than 100 orders .
It recently previewed what may be the start of a new ad war by showing financiers a slide illustrating three people squashed together at a restaurant , titled &quot; Would You Accept This ? &quot;
&quot; Boeing is proposing long-distance flying in seats narrower than regional turbo-props , &quot; said Airbus sales chief John Leahy .
As diets change , people get bigger but plane seating has not radically changed .
Between the early 1970s , when the Boeing 747 jumbo defined modern long-haul travel , and the turn of the century , the weight of the average American 40- to 49-year-old male increased by 10 per cent , according to U.S. Health Department Data .
The waist of the average 21st-century American male is 39.7 inches , according to U.S. health statistics .
Airbus says its rival is sticking to a seat concept from the 1950s , when the average girth of the newly christened &quot; jet set &quot; was narrower .
Airbus says it has commissioned research suggesting an extra inch in seat width improves sleep quality by 53 per cent .
Boeing disputes Airbus &apos;s figures on seat measurements and says it is not up to manufacturers to step into decisions on how airlines balance fares and facilities .
It also says research shows cabin experience depends on more than the width of a seat .
&quot; It really comes down to providing flexibility to airlines and allowing them to do the things that they believe they need to do to be successful , &quot; said Boeing cabins expert Kent Craver .
They don &apos;t want us to dictate to them what makes them profitable .
They know their business better than anyone else .
For flyers it is about more elbow room , but for suppliers it is increasingly an issue that could affect earnings .
Behind the dispute is a race for plane orders with at least $ 700-billion of estimated business at list prices in coming decades , enough to tip the scales of U.S. and European exports .
As Reuters first reported in July , seat layout is exactly what drives the battle between the latest jets .
Both Airbus and Boeing claim 20 per cent better efficiency per seat in their latest twin-engined long-haul designs than the market leader in that segment , the 365-seat Boeing 777-300ER .
Boeing &apos;s performance claims depend in part on comparing the 10-abreast 777X with an original 9-abreast 777 design .
The gain in unit costs is blunted compared with 10-abreast now in use .
&quot; The reason Boeing are doing this is to cram more seats in to make their plane more competitive with our products , &quot; said Kevin Keniston , head of passenger comfort at Europe &apos;s Airbus .
On the other hand , analysts say full 10-seat-per-row cabins for existing 777s suggest many passengers are voting for the denser layout , which may go hand in hand with cheaper fares .
&quot; Eighteen inches in seat width would be great for passengers , but the reality is that from a business point of the Airbus proposal is driven by the threat of the 777 , &quot; said cabin interiors expert Mary Kirby , founder and editor of the Runway Girl Network .
Airbus and Boeing do not supply seats but offer a catalogue of suppliers for airlines to choose from .
Globe-trotting jet sellers even carry tape measures to check on competing layouts .
While boasting comfort , all builders also offer jets with high-density layouts for low-cost airlines and regional travel .
Airbus offers a 10-abreast A350 but says it has not yet sold it .
Until recently , Airbus was stressing the need for more cabin customization by offering wider aisle seats on some of its jets .
Without the support of the only other maker of large modern jets , experts say its call for a new industry standard is unlikely to fly , but could distract from a wave of 777X sales .
The FAA is easing restrictions on the use of electronic gadgets on airplanes - though chatting on cellphones will still be prohibited .
Warplanes attack a store of Russian missiles in the port city of Latakia , an official says .
It &apos;s an apparent continuation of Israel &apos;s campaign to keep arms from proliferating in the Mideast .
A federal appeals court blocks a judge &apos;s ruling that the NYPD &apos;s controversial tactic discriminates against minorities .
Nearly 100 African migrants hoping to travel to Algeria die of thirst after their two trucks break down in the middle of the Sahara .
Experts say violence that left 14 adults and seven children dead is nothing more than random chance , not a sign of growing violence in America .
Rather than being rattled by the U.S. government shutdown , investors kept their focus on what probably matters more: the Federal Reserve .
The California woman plans to challenge what may be a first-of-its-kind citation , saying the Internet-connected eyewear makes navigation easier .
Police say they have a video that appears to show Mayor Rob Ford smoking a crack pipe .
Even close allies keep things from one another - and work every angle to find out what &apos;s being held back .
The Vatican wants to know how Catholic parishes around the globe handle sensitive issues like contraception , divorce and gay couples .
Persons seriously injured following collision
Early on Friday afternoon , two car drivers were seriously injured in a head-on collision on Landesstraße 44 (a rural road).
The police completely blocked off the road immediately , but initially could not make much comment on the cause of the accident .
However , they did mention that there were various witness statements that first had to be assessed .
What is certain is that the 19-year-old female driver of a VW Golf was driving in the direction of Revensdorf and the 38-year-old man from Gettorf came towards her in his Hyundai .
The two vehicles collided , whereby the woman was so severely stuck that it took the fire service almost half an hour to free her from the vehicle wreckage .
Initially the actual cause of the accident remained unclear .
Both unfortunate parties were taken to nearby hospitals .
The road remained fully blocked off for around two hours .
Fire crews called to rescue lost puppy after she got stuck 50ft above the ground on precarious ledge in a quarry
Cocker spaniel Ruby had run off after she was in a minor road crash
She was spotted three days later by a dog walker trapped in the quarry
Firefighters abseil down cliff face to pluck the dog from certain death
A puppy had a lucky escape after fire crews were called to lift her to safety when she somehow got herself stuck 50ft up on a precarious cliff ledge .
Nine month-old cocker spaniel Ruby had run off after being involved in a road crash on Sunday afternoon and survived three days alone before being rescued from a quarry on Wednesday .
Her owners Scott Alderson , 25 , and his girlfriend Becky Hall , 20 , were at Flappit Quarry in Denholme , West Yorkshire , to be reunited with Ruby and have thanked West Yorkshire Fire and Rescue Service .
They had searched frantically for their missing dog and posted appeals on social networking sites after she had ran into the quarry following the minor accident .
At around 2.15pm on Wednesday , an eagle-eyed dog walker spotted Ruby on the ledge in the quarry , stranded 50ft up .
A Technical Rescue Team from Cleckheaton Fire Station rushed to the scene and abseiled down to rescue Ruby and used a pet tube to transport her up the cliff .
Specialist Technical Rescue Officer Andy Clayton said: &apos; She was in a precarious situation .
She was right in the middle of the cliff face - 50ft from the top and bottom .
She did not move a muscle during the rescue - she was frozen solid .
But she is fine now .
She was eating biscuits afterwards .
This was a very unusual call-out .
The fact that the dog was spotted is unbelievable .
Specialist Technical Rescue Officer Peter Lau said: &quot; Ruby had a very lucky escape . &quot;
The potential was there that she could have been very seriously injured or worse .
Ruby was taken to the vets for a check-up and was found to be fine other than exhaustion and dehydration .
Miss Hall , from Halifax , West Yorkshire , said: &quot; Watching the rescue was terrifying . &quot;
I could not believe that she was up there in the first place .
It was amazing to get her back in our arms .
The vet said that if she became too exhausted and collapsed she would probably have fallen .
The firefighters were amazing .
It was really daring what they did .
We are just so grateful and every single one of them was absolutely tremendous .
Mr Alderson , from Keighley , added: &quot; We were scared that she might fall but she stayed there . &quot;
The firefighters were brilliant .
I just can &apos;t believe where she was .
Report: Obama campaign considered dumping Biden for Hillary Clinton
President Barack Obama &apos;s closest advisers secretly considered replacing Vice President Joe Biden with Hillary Clinton on the 2012 ticket , according to the New York Times .
The revelation is the most notable bombshell from Mark Halperin and John Heilemann &apos;s heavily anticipated 2012 campaign tome , &quot; Double Down: Game Change 2012 . &quot;
The Times obtained a copy of the forthcoming book and reported Thursday evening that the President &apos;s top aides conducted &quot; extensive group-sessions and polling in late 2011 &quot; to gauge whether the dumping Biden could help bolster Obama &apos;s waning re-election hopes .
According to the Times &apos; national political correspondent Jonathan Martin , the book provides a thorough account of the effort by senior officials inside the campaign and the White House , namely former White House Chief of Staff Bill Daley , to measure what effect swapping former Secretary of State Clinton for the Vice President would have in the polls .
The potential switch was a closely guarded secret within the Chicago campaign infrastructure and inside the Oval Office .
Only half a dozen of the President &apos;s closest advisers -- including Daley , former Obama campaign chief Jim Messina , and former White House senior advisers David Axelrod and David Plouffe -- knew the change was under consideration .
&quot; Double Down &quot; claims Daley spearheaded the effort to replace Biden , despite their &quot; close personal rapport , &quot; before ultimately deciding against the move when their data showed adding Clinton to the ticket wouldn &apos;t &quot; materially improve Obama &apos;s odds . &quot;
In an interview with Martin , Daley confirmed that the administration did in fact consider replacing Biden with Clinton .
&quot; I was vocal about looking into a whole bunch of things , and this was one of them , &quot; Daley told the paper .
You have to remember , at that point the President was in awful shape , so we were like , &quot; Holy Christ , what do we do ? &quot;
While Daley characterized the research as &quot; due diligence , &quot; Martin told CNN &apos;s Anderson Cooper that the re-election campaign made a significant investment in finding out whether the move would pay dividends at the polls .
&quot; Campaigns don &apos;t spend the kind of money on polling and focus groups unless they &apos;re seriously considering something , &quot; Martin said on AC360 .
It &apos;s unclear , however , whether Obama knew his team was exploring the swap .
Martin told CNN that he asked Daley whether his then-boss knew about the potential shuffle .
While Daley said he doesn &apos;t think the President &quot; was aware &quot; of the potential change , the former chief of staff admitted that it &apos;s &quot; possible &quot; Obama knew .
Martin added that &quot; Double Down &quot; does not definitively answer whether the political probing reached Obama &apos;s desk .
Cooper asked Martin whether he seriously thought Obama did not know about the research into dumping Biden from the ticket .
&quot; Possibly , &quot; Martin replied .
A day of thanks with the MGV (Male Choral Society) in Dinker
This year the &quot; Friedrich Wilhelm Dinker &quot; MGV issued an invitation to its 165th anniversary celebration , which 52 guests , active singers and their wives were happy to accept .
In the clubhouse at the &quot; Witteborg &quot; Inn in Dinker , all those present enjoyed the friendly get-together in the name of music .
Traditionally , the anniversary celebration is also always the fitting occasion to bestow honours .
This time around , secretary Rolf Wagener was delighted to receive the special &quot; Singer of the Year &quot; award .
&quot; Not only have you kept countless records for us , but you have also done so much running around for us , and for this we offer our sincere thanks , &quot; said Choir Chairman Erich Schlotmann .
The awards for participation in the performances and choir rehearsals by means of the presentation of &quot; activity posies &quot; , this year went to Choir Director Dieter Schulze , with 44 attendance marks , followed by Honorary Chairman Horst Pier-Ribbert , the Chairman himself , and last year &apos;s &quot; Singer of the Year &quot; Friedrich Winkler , each having attended 42 times .
Fifth place went to Artur Brückner , responsible for organising music copies .
The Board of Directors gave special thanks to the team managed by innkeeper , Ange Pier-Ribbert , which once again delighted those present with a top class menu , and to Gerda Pier-Ribbert for the table decorations .
The &quot; Friedrich-Wilhelm &quot; MGV meets for its regular choir rehearsals in the clubhouse every Tuesday at 19: 45 .
&quot; New voices that love to sing are more than welcome any time , &quot; said Schlotmann .
NSA revelations boost corporate paranoia about state surveillance
On a mild day in late August a German police helicopter buzzed low over the US consulate in Frankfurt , the financial capital of Germany .
On the instruction of the Office for the Protection of the Constitution (BfV), Germany &apos;s domestic intelligence agency , its mission was to photograph the rooftop of the US outpost , which is located less than 5km from the European Central Bank and Bundesbank .
German media say the BfV hoped to identify the presence of listening antennas and the action prompted an exchange between the US and the German foreign ministry in Berlin .
James Clapper , US Director of National Intelligence , insisted again in September that the US does not use foreign intelligence capabilities &quot; to steal the trade secrets of foreign companies on behalf of US companies to enhance their international competitiveness or increase their bottom line . &quot;
But ever since Edward Snowden , the contractor turned whistleblower , began releasing his treasure trove of US surveillance secrets , European governments and business leaders are no longer sure whether to take the director at his word .
Reports that the US National Security Agency spied on Brazilian oil company Petrobras and gained access to data held by US cloud providers including Google and Yahoo have ratcheted corporate paranoia about state surveillance to new highs .
The final straw came when it was revealed that Chancellor Angela Merkel &apos;s phone had been bugged , possibly for about a decade .
If Europe &apos;s most powerful person can be targeted , then surely business leaders are also potential targets .
Snowden has made transparent the intensive collaboration between US intelligence services and companies .
I think it &apos;s conceivable that these data are used for mutual benefit .
&quot; Germany must wake up , &quot; says Oliver Grün , president of BITMi , which represents small and medium sized German IT companies .
German companies believe the US now poses almost as big a risk as China when it comes to industrial espionage and data theft , according to a survey published in July by EY , the consultancy .
In all the documentation leaked by Mr Snowden , there has , however , been no evidence to date that the US has passed on foreign companies &apos; trade secrets to its own companies .
Politicians have expressed concern that the EU lacks certain IT and internet capabilities and should strive to reduce its dependence on the US .
Business leaders are sceptical about this .
Someone in the German parliament says we should build a German Google .
I can only shut my eyes and slowly open them again ...
&quot; That &apos;s not the way , &quot; Hasso Plattner , chairman of German business software company SAP , says .
If one wanted a strong European IT industry , then one shouldn &apos;t have let it die out 20 years ago .
Everything is subsidised in Germany , from coal , to cars and farmers .
Everything but the IT industry .
Still , the reach and technical sophistication of US spy agencies exposed by the Snowden revelations have come as a shock to some companies who previously thought the biggest surveillance risk was posed by China .
A big shift is occurring in cloud computing where European executives have become more aware that data stored in the US is subject to that jurisdiction and therefore potentially vulnerable .
According to a survey carried out by the Cloud Security Alliance , a trade body , some 10 per cent of non-US members cancelled plans to use a US-based cloud provider after revelations about the US Prism data mining programme .
Jim Snabe , co-chief executive at SAP , says: &quot; We see a new question from customers that didn &apos;t come up a year ago - which is where is my data stored and can you guarantee that it stays physically in that jurisdiction . &quot;
Many German executives argue that the latest reports are simply confirmation of what they already knew: that powerful states want to steal their most prized secrets and these data must therefore be guarded at all costs .
That economic spying takes place is not a surprise .
It has always taken place .
&quot; This has been a topic for many years and hasn &apos;t fundamentally changed through the current discussion , &quot; says Kurt Bock , chief executive of chemical maker BASF .
The Americans spy on us on the commercial and industrial level as we spy on them too , because it is in the national interest to defend our businesses .
Corporate leaders are not generally keen to boast about the countermeasures they have taken , in case this hands an advantage to an attacker .
For large companies , the message has long since been drummed home that picking up a free USB stick at a trade fair , or leaving a laptop unguarded in a hotel room are unwise , to say the least .
Ulrich Hackenberg , board member at carmaker Audi , says it has been standard practice for years for mobile phones to be collected before board meetings so they cannot be used as remote listening devices .
Germany &apos;s BfV advises executives to consider using simple prepaid mobiles when on foreign trips because of the risk that smart phones are compromised .
The prepaid mobiles are then thrown away afterwards .
However , there is concern that small and medium-sized companies remain vulnerable to hacking and surveillance .
In Germany , many of these companies are global market leaders in their particular niche .
&quot; Small and medium sized companies often lack the experience , personnel and financial resources to protect corporate secrets effectively against unauthorised access , &quot; the BfV warns in a report .
The US warns its own companies about economic espionage by other countries .
The US National Intelligence Estimate in February named France alongside Russia and Israel in a second tier of offenders who engage in hacking for economic intelligence , behind China , according to The Washington Post .
A board member at a German blue-chip company concurred that when it comes to economic espionage , &quot; the French are the worst . &quot;
Bernard Squarcini , former head of the French internal intelligence agency DCRI , was quoted in an interview this month as saying: &quot; The services know perfectly well that all countries , even as they co-operate in the antiterrorist fight , spy on their allies . &quot;
Gechingen: Absolute protection not possible
&quot; We want to involve the residents in the planning at as early a stage as possible , &quot; said Mayor Jens Häußler , opening the citizen &apos;s information event regarding the flood protection concept in Gechingen .
Around 80 participants came to the Gemeindehalle (community hall) to have the planned measures explained to them , to express their concerns and submit ideas .
Häußler made clear: &quot; The final decisions will be made by the members of the Town Council &quot; .
Häußler commented that the flood that found Gechingen unprepared on 15 May 2009 , was a decisive event in raising the question of protective measures for the future .
A river basin study was commissioned in collaboration with the neighbouring community of Aidlingen , which now forms the basis for the flood protection concept in Gechingen .
&quot; The goal is the protection of as many developed plots of land as possible , &quot; said Häußler .
The basis for the plans is the need for protection against expected floods , which statistically occurs every 100 years , according to the German Weather Service .
Climate change is taken into account in the form of an allowance of 15 per cent .
In expert circles this is referred to as &quot; HQ 100aKlima &quot; .
The masses of water that caused considerable damage in Gechingen in 2009 was equivalent to a 1,000-year flood .
&quot; There is no such thing as absolute protection , but we can attempt to make a relative improvement , &quot; said Häußler .
In order to achieve HQ 100aKlima protection , around four million € must be invested in Gechingen , whereby the town can count on a State subsidy of around 70 per cent .
However , Häußler indicated that the funding would only be provided if an overall concept is developed .
In order to develop such a concept , the town is reliant on the cooperation of its citizens .
A complex planning and approval procedure must be completed .
In a best case scenario , implementation could begin in 2016 .
Among other measures , the protection concept , which (we reported) has already been presented to the Town Council during the past week , plans local measures in the tributary to the River Irm , running from the Stammheim Valley .
In conjunction with the presentation of the flood protection concept , the participants made use of the opportunity to submit their concerns .
Among others , the question was raised as to why embankments and detention reservoirs are no longer planned to protect the location .
Gregor Kühn , technical planner at the commissioned engineering company , Hügelsheim-based &apos; Wald und Corbe &apos; , who presented the concept , emphasised that it required the interplay of all proposed measures , in order that their sum might achieve the desired goal .
Furthermore , the most economic solution must be found , said Joachim Wald of Wald und Corbe .
There was resentment among local residents of the old town , who have repeatedly to suffer as a result of the overflowing of the canal network , even during normal thunderstorms .
The problem is known to the administrative department and initial measures have already been taken .
However , Häußler indicated that the guidelines for canal systems are different to those for flood protection , and these must not be confused .
The town is obliged to design the canal network in such a way that it can withstand rainfall events every two to three years .
To make the sewerage channels wider would gobble up millions .
$ 325m rescue package for Tassie health
The Federal Government insists a $ 325 million rescue package for Tasmania &apos;s ailing health system has tough conditions attached that will ensure the State Government can &apos;t waste the funds .
Federal Health Minister Tanya Plibersek has announced the Commonwealth is taking &quot; urgent action &quot; to head off a crisis caused by the island state &apos;s aging population , higher rates of chronic disease and system constraints .
The funding , over four years , was decided after government consultations with Tasmanian independent MP Andrew Wilkie .
&quot; The Government has come up with an emergency rescue package we believe will address the unique challenges faced by the state , &quot; Ms Plibersek said today .
The $ 325 million package includes a $ 31 million elective surgery blitz .
An additional 2600 operations including orthopedic and cataract surgery will help clear a backlog .
There &apos;s also money for walk-in clinics in Hobart and Launceston , better after-hospital care , medical specialist training , mental health services and the rollout of personal electronic health record systems in local hospitals .
&quot; These investments respond to the ideas that front-line clinicians have told me will be the best ways to tend to Tasmania &apos;s health system , &quot; Ms Plibersek said .
The minister insisted the Tasmanian Government would face a strict reporting and accountability regime .
The state would have to maintain current funding levels in order to receive Commonwealth cash and report monthly on where it was spending the extra funds .
A three-person commission will be set up to ensure the state is delivering services as effectively and efficiently as possible .
Mr Wilkie today said the $ 325 million would count for little &quot; unless it &apos;s followed by genuine reform to put Tasmania &apos;s public health system on a more sustainable footing . &quot;
He nevertheless praised the Government for responding to his request for urgent assistance which he first raised with the Prime Minister at the beginning of May .
&quot; I &apos;m hopeful the federal assistance package will go a long way towards taking the state &apos;s public health system off the critical list , &quot; Mr Wilkie said .
According to the State Government these additional elective procedures will largely reverse the recent cuts .
But federal Opposition health spokesman Peter Dutton believes today &apos;s announcement is a &quot; band-aid solution . &quot;
&quot; The reason we are here is that the Labor State Government ripped $ 430 million out of its health system , &quot; he told ABC TV .
You can &apos;t have a state government ripping out almost half-a-billion dollars and the Commonwealth put in $ 300 million and pretend it &apos;s a good news day .
Mr Dutton called on Ms Plibersek to guarantee that not one dollar out of the rescue package would be spent on additional bureaucracy .
Mozambique security concerns mount as powerful personalities clash
With a statue of Samora Machel , Mozambique &apos;s founding president , staring down on them , thousands of people gathered in central Maputo to chant peace slogans in a rare public demonstration .
&quot; We want peace back; we want stability , &quot; said Vanessa de Sousa , chief executive of an investment company .
Fearful about the future of her country , she swapped her corporate attire for a T-shirt emblazoned with &quot; we demand security &quot; in Portuguese as she joined the crowds in the capital &apos;s Independence Square on Thursday .
For two weeks , there have been almost daily reports of clashes between government forces and Renamo , some of the worst skirmishes since a peace deal more than 20 years ago .
Renamo was once a notorious rebel movement , initially backed by white-ruled Rhodesia and then South Africa &apos;s apartheid government as part of efforts to destabilise the country &apos;s independent government .
After a 1992 peace deal , it became an opposition party .
Analysts believe the country is unlikely to slide back into full-blown conflict , but recent events have unnerved foreign investors and locals .
The stakes are high for the fast-growing economy as the discovery of huge offshore gas reserves and coal deposits in the northwest could bring in more than $ 50bn of investment over the next few next years from companies including Rio Tinto , Vale of Brazil , Eni of Italy and Anadarko of the US .
The ruling Frelimo party , the dominant political force since 1975 , and Renamo blame each other for the tension .
Renamo says the government initiated the latest clashes by launching an attack on its members in Sofala province , traditionally a Renamo stronghold , on October 17 .
Assaults on the former rebels then escalated as government forces attacked Renamo bases and attempted to kill Afonso Dhlakama , the group &apos;s leader , Fernando Mazanga , Renamo &apos;s spokesman , told the Financial Times .
The government blames Renamo for triggering the clashes , accusing it of attacking soldiers .